so in Mahabharat there's a character
called Dearest he's blind and he had an
assistant called Sanchez
so Sanjay was one of the best
commentators he can narrate almost
anything and help the King around and
Sanjay had a superpower they can he can
see around the world anything that's
happening and narrate the same to the
king so I thought I'll make a
technological replacement for Sanjay so
how it works is that we live our lives
by perceiving moments that we go through
and we make use of senses to perceive
the moments if one of the senses goes
missing we make use of other senses a
bit more and have the same level of
perception vision in this case is better
replaced by touch and auditory senses I
try to use touch as the primary mode of
interaction and see how it goes so a
basic visual example visual experience
is reading a newspaper touch or a
tactile example of doing this is reading
a Braille newspaper if you go a bit
technologically advanced we do the same
on a Braille reader which is like
essentially a grid of Braille pins which
can tell our information so any number
of pages any number of newspapers if we
make it a two-way communication what
happens is we fill the grid completely
and make it reactive to touch so it
becomes something that we can read and
it becomes something that can understand
what's happening with it if you go ahead
and we make it a surface rather than a
grid so we make the Braille pins
disappear so it becomes a smooth surface
which can again read and we can
understand basically what we are trying
to tell so this is something something
of a tactile surface but problem with
the tactile surface is that it's it
doesn't work as a visual surface you
basically have to touch through the
surface to understand what elements
exist on the surface so how to make it
more perceivable how to make the
experience bit more faster so these are
the examples of what we can do we can
put text we can put animations we can
put Braille on the surface to make it
more
forseeable I included two frameworks one
was a level of reference which makes use
of the surface level and tells you where
the displayed information is a
information element or a text field or a
button element and secondly I included
affordance this was by the way of having
a consistent layout all through the
interaction so a user even before seeing
or like feeling a surface actually had
enough idea where would action elements
be and where would be information planes
on the surface so taking these things
into consideration
I had a Braille concept phone how this
is how it looks like on the right side
are the navigation elements which are
like permanent buttons and slider on the
left side is the surface which I talked
about so it has text field it has
buttons this particular screen is how
you would make a call from a Braille
phone the next screen basically so shows
how you would type out an SMS on a
Braille phone and the good thing about
Braille is that it's a multilingual
medium so basically you don't need to
learn a new language to learn Braille
you can use a Hindi Braille you can use
an English Braille whichever when you
actually know basically with this such
kind of tactile medium we can do a bit
more cool things we can play music and
user basically knows what music is
playing what sound name is we can play
some games
we can play games with a visual
interaction element also over the
network we can do a bit more we can have
tactile maps on the surface so blind
user can actually make use of maps and
reaches home or reaches destination
without actually asking anyone there are
a bit more better things to do the thing
the Braille phone can scan through
visual textual elements and convert it
to a Braille element so a user really
he's like as capable as anyone there's a
bit more cool thing you can do with it
so basically what it does is it can
capture visuals and convert them to
highlights so even if the highlight is
not a perfect capture of the visual but
it can give the Braille for a blind
person an example of what emotions a
person is going through or what a visual
scenario looks like and since you have
static visuals we can have
as well so a blind person can possibly
video chat he can possibly understand
what the corresponding person is
reacting like so thank you
[Applause]